All right recruit so you've installed anti-condom Python onto your computer.
Now we just need to discuss how to actually run Python code.
Now there are several ways to run Python code.
But first let's have a quick discussion on the various options for development environments.
There are three main types of development environments text editors full ID's and notebook environments.
Text editors are basically just general editors that work for any sort of text file and they're generalized
meaning they can work for a variety of programming languages and work of a variety of file types.
They can be customize if additional plugins and add ons to give them looks feels an extra functionality
that a user may want.
However for general text editors you should keep in mind that most are not designed with only Python
in mind.
They're designed to be general text editors for a variety of languages.
The most popular text editors currently are probably subline text and Adam with Sublime Text probably
being one of the most popular development environments for just a variety of languages.
Then we come to fool IDs.
IDS stands for Integrated development environments.
The fool idea is a development environment specifically designed for Python.
This is ideal for larger programs or when you're working at a company where everyone should have the
same working environment to have the same look feel and basically protocol for designing code.
You should keep in mind that integrated development environments typically are produced by some sort
of company.
So you need to pay for them and only their community editions are free.
Now they are designed specifically for Python so they have tons of extra functionality.
But sometimes that may feel bloated.
Especially if you just want to quickly write a small script.
The most popular fool ideas for Python are pite charm and spider.
And if you install the full Anaconda python distribution you actually already have spider with the install.
Finally there's notebook environments that spooky environments are really great for learning.
They like to see input output right next to each other but even better than that they actually support
inline marked down notes visualisations videos and more meaning you can actually take notes that are
not code basically just little notes for yourself explaining the code and then right below it you can
have a little cell that actually runs code where you should note though is that they actually require
a special file format that is not a PI file and because it's not a PI file you can't really double click
on a notebook file on your computer.
You need to open it through that Jupiter notebook environment which will show you how to do it just
a little bit looping environments are also typically not suitable for really large projects have multiple
files.
They're better for just learning how to code and really small quick projects.
If you want a larger script or larger program maybe check out text editors or full IDs.
The most popular notebook environment for Python is the Jupiter notebook.
Now the most important thing to know is that development environments are a very personal choice.
That's really why the pen on your personal preference.
Some people really love the Jupiter note book environment and they actually use do you note book environment
for developing really large projects.
Peter Norvig who's the director of research at Google is a big fan of the Jupiter notebook system.
Other people really like the notebooks they don't like that it opens in your browser and they prefer
text editors that they're used to.
Or maybe they prefer ideas.
And typically programmers who are very experienced in another language tend to prefer ideas or text
editors because it's a smoother transition for them.
Whatever your preference is choose whichever development environment you prefer.
Well we're going to do now is explore how to actually run Python code.
We're first going to explore with an editor to create a PI script and then run the file at your command
line.
Then we're going to explore how to run code in a Jupiter notebook and the various extra features of
the Jupiter notebook throughout your training in your bootcamp.
We'll be using Jupiter notebooks.
But again please feel free to use whatever development environment you prefer.
It's quite a personal choice to actually work with an editor.
We first need to download one.
So we'll download the Sublime Text Editor and you can do that by going to w w w That's a blind text
dot com.
All right here we are at Sublime Text dot com.
And typically it will of the text well operating system you're on and it will have a little button for
you saying download for OS Linux or Windows.
It's a very simple text editor and it's probably the most popular text editor in the world and it has
a really interesting pricing scheme.
It's technically not free but they give you an unlimited free trial where they will just have a little
pop up every once in a while asking you if you're ready to upgrade to buy it.
So again it's technically not free but it has an unlimited free trial for the rest of your life.
It will just have a little pop up asking you to purchase the full license.
So click here on download and then select the download for your operating system either OS X Windows
when the 64 bit or Linux.
So typically what you should do is just go to the home page and then click whatever it download that
is out of the text for you.
Once you've downloaded it we'll go ahead and open the Sublime Text Editor.
Once you've downloaded and installed subline text you should be able to search your computer for Sublime
Text.
Click on it.
Open it up and it will look something like this.
Next what we're going to do is actually type out some Python code and then save this as a dot PI script.
Go ahead and type prints.
Open and close parentheses and then in single quotes or double quotes hello world and this will be your
first Python script and then select File Save As and the reason we're doing that is if you notice right
now there's no syntax highlighting that is to say everything is the same color for this font so sublime
text editor doesn't actually know that this is a Python script.
What we want to do is save it as.
And we're going to call this file my example and you'll notice if you click on all files you have lots
of extensions to choose from.
We're going to choose to save it as a python file.
So you're going to say my example save as a python file.
The other option you can do is just select all files and then say my example and yourself right.
PI.
Either way is fine.
Go ahead and save it making sure it's a dot PI file.
Hit save and now you'll notice subline text editor understands that it's a python script file and it's
performed syntax highlighting to help you read this.
Print is a function.
Hello world is a string and we're going to be learning a lot more about that and Python in general.
Later on in your training for now let's see how to actually run this script.
Remember that we've saved that to our desktop meaning at our command line.
We need to change directories to our desktop so we can run the sexual up-I file.
Go ahead and open up your command line.
Since I'm on Windows I will open up a command prompt.
If your on a Mac OS or Linux you'll open up a terminal then you'll want to change directory to your
actual desktop or wherever you say stop by file type CD and then desktop to change directory to your
desktop and then what you should be able to do is type out Python space and then begin typing out the
name of your file.
In my case it was example that pi and to prove to yourself that we're in the correct location you should
be able to hit tab and it will autocomplete.
So here we say Python.
My example does PI and this is how you can run a PI script at your command line enter.
Then you should be able to see.
Hello world.
Now you successfully created a Python script in your text editor and you ran that script at your command
line.
Well you can also do is just type python by itself at your command line.
Hit enter and this is a very simple direct connection to Python allowing you to type python code directly
at your command line.
We won't really be using this throughout your training because it's only one line at a time and eventually
we'll be using and learning about writing more than one line at a time for code.
You can also just check it out type prints hello
enter in your notice you have hello.
As the output.
So this basically one line at a time.
You can write Python code then we can type quit open and close parentheses enter and leave quit out
of the Python interpreter.
All right so we just learned how to actually run a Python script at your command line.
Now let's explore the Jupiter notebook environment and see how that works to do so will go to our Anaconda
Navigator so search your computer for Anaconda navigator.
Open that up and then once you've done that go ahead and launch the Jupiter notebook.
Once you click on that launch button you should notice that your browser automatically opens up to localhost
colon either.
8 8 8 8 or 8 8 8 9 or some other series of numbers.
Keep in mind that while Jupiter notebook does operate inside of your browser it does not require an
internet connection.
Everything is happening locally.
There's no Internet connection between Jupiter and some other server somewhere.
It just happens to open up an opera in your browser as a convenient graphical interface for you to program
in.
So once you launch Jupiter notebook he'll notice that you can view all the files on your computer.
For example we can click here on the desktop folder and now I can see that my example that postscript
we had just created earlier and using it in an opaque system you can actually add on and edit that py
files.
So for example we could add on another print statement here.
Knew and then saved this change so we could say save.
And then we could also download or rename the file and a bunch of other stuff but we're not going to
be using Jupiter for this sort of text editing.
It's probably better to use subline text editor.
But again it's personal preference.
What we're really going to be using Jupiter and Jupiter for is the notebook system so you can click
here where it says new and under notebook you should see Python 3.
Sometimes it says can the route or something else but click on what it says under notebook.
Typically it says Python 3.
And then you'll notice that we just started a new notebook.
So let's have a quick overview of what this actually is.
Here it says untitled.
And that's because this notebook that we just created doesn't actually have a title.
And if we click back here to the other tab you'll notice we just created an untitled IP IPY and B file
that stands for each Python notebook file.
Jupiter notebooks used to be called I Python notebooks so they kept the file extension name.
And if we want to change this name all we have to do is go back to this tab select on title and give
her a notebook a new name so we will say my first notebook enter and we have renamed the notebook as
well as the actual file.
You'll notice now it says my first notebook the python notebook extension.
So coming back to this notebook the notebook uses a cell based system meaning you write code in a cell.
You run the cell and then see the actual output.
Right below the cell.
So let's try running or simple print statement inside of a cell type print but close print sees Hello.
And you notice that Jupiter autocomplete somethings for you such as quotes or parentheses.
And then we can run the cell.
So you can click here on the run button and it will run the cell and you'll see the output directly
below.
This is a great system for people who are just starting to learn about Python because they quickly iterate
and fix mistakes because they have their code and they can see the output directly.
They don't have to be constantly going to the command line and running their scripts again.
It's definitely a personal preference but this is a nice feature of the notebook for people that are
learning Python.
And you notice that we automatically create an other cell below which you can type more Python code
in for example print new.
And if you don't want to have to click that run button every time all you have to do is do shift enter
and that will run a cell again that's shift enter to run a cell.
If you just enter by itself you'll just create more new lines.
So it's shift and tert to run a cell.
There's lots of other useful hockeys where you can click on Help and then hit keyboard shortcuts and
it will list all the keyboard shortcuts.
The most useful ones will be teaching you later on but you can always explore that yourself.
Now we also discussed that the notebook system can actually hold Mark down text that is just normal
text that is not code that you can't just use for yourself to type out notes as you're learning throughout
this bootcamp.
So if you click on a cell you'll notice here it says code and that's because this is currently a python
code cell if you want to make it into just a normal markdown cell.
Select from this dropdown marked down.
And now this is no longer a code cell.
It's just a cell that will just have normal text in it.
And you'll notice that it no longer has this in right in front of the cell.
So that also indicates that it's just for normal text.
So here you can write yourself just notes that will help you understand and if you do shift enter it
will then display them as just a normal text.
So again this is no longer code it's just text for yourself and a lot of the notebooks we provide throughout
your training will have marked down text as explanation.
And if you ever want to write another code so you can just sit on a cell and then make sure that selected
code should be able to print whatever you want here.
Shift and try to run that.
And that's the very basics we'll be talking a lot more about notebooks later on throughout your training.
But that's really the basics.
The last thing I want to note is that this special extension of the notebook file this IPY and B means
that you actually can't double click on this file on your computer and expect it to open.
So let me show you what I mean by that very quickly.
You'll notice that if I come to my desktop I can see here my example that pi and if I double click on
this it will actually open up in whatever default program I have for it.
Typically Sublime Text Editor or whatever other editors you have on your computer so you can double
click on that py files edit them and work with them.
However if you try double clicking on a IPY and B file you'll end up getting something asking you how
do you want to open this file or it will just kind of open up and you'll just see a bunch of scrambled
code.
That means that you can only open the special notebook files through the Jupiter notebook system still
have to open up Anaconda navigator launch a Jupiter notebook and then actually find it throughout your
computer and click on it.
All right that's the very basics of running Python code.
It's time to actually learn Python.
We'll see there recruit.